3–WIRE COMMUNICATIONS
The 3–wire bus is comprised of three signals. These are
the RST (reset) signal, the CLK (clock) signal, and the
DQ (data) signal. All data transfers are initiated by driv-
ing the RST input high. Driving the RST input low termi-
nates communication. (See Figures 4 and 5.) A clock
cycle is a sequence of a falling edge followed by a rising
edge. For data inputs, the data must be valid during the
rising edge of a clock cycle. Data bits are output on the
falling edge of the clock, and remain valid through the
rising edge.
When reading data from the DS1620, the DQ pin goes
to a high impedance state while the clock is high. Taking
RST low will terminate any communication and cause
the DQ pin to go to a high impedance state.
Data over the 3–wire interface is communicated LSB
first. The command set for the 3–wire interface as
shown in Table 3 is as follows.

Read Temperature [AAh]
This command reads the contents of the register which
contains the last temperature conversion result. The
next nine clock cycles will output the contents of this reg-
ister.

Write TH [01h]
This command writes to the TH (HIGH TEMPERA-
TURE) register. After issuing this command, the next
nine clock cycles clock in the 9–bit temperature limit
which will set the threshold for operation of the T HIGH
output.

Write TL [02h]
This command writes to the TL (LOW TEMPERA-
TURE) register. After issuing this command, the next
nine clock cycles clock in the 9–bit temperature limit
which will set the threshold for operation of the T LOW
output.

Read TH [A1h]
This command reads the value of the TH (HIGH TEM-
PERATURE) register. After issuing this command, the
next nine clock cycles clock out the 9–bit temperature
limit which sets the threshold for operation of the T HIGH
output.

Read TL [A2h]
This command reads the value of the TL (LOW TEM-
PERATURE) register. After issuing this command, the
next nine clock cycles clock out the 9–bit temperature
limit which sets the threshold for operation of the T LOW
output.

Read Counter [A0h]
This command reads the value of the counter byte. The
next nine clock cycles will output the contents of this reg-
ister.

Read Slope [A9h]
This command reads the value of the slope counter byte
from the DS1620. The next nine clock cycles will output
the contents of this register.

Start Convert T [EEh]
This command begins a temperature conversion. No
further data is required. In one–shot mode, the tempera-
ture conversion will be performed and then the DS1620
will remain idle. In continuous mode, this command will
initiate continuous conversions.

Stop Convert T [22h]
This command stops temperature conversion. No fur-
ther data is required. This command may be used to halt
a DS1620 in continuous conversion mode. After issuing
this command, the current temperature measurement
will be completed, and then the DS1620 will remain idle
until a Start Convert T is issued to resume continuous
operation.

Write Config [0Ch]
This command writes to the configuration register. After
issuing this command, the next eight clock cycles clock
in the value of the configuration register.

Read Config [ACh]
This command reads the value in the configuration reg-
ister. After issuing this command, the next eight clock
cycles output the value of the configuration register.

A clock cycle is a sequence of a falling edge followed by a rising edge. For data inputs, 
the data must be valid during the rising edge of a clock cycle. Data bits are output on the
falling edge of the clock, and remain valid through the rising edge.

Data in - rising edge
Data out - falling edge

